welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
hi everyone and welcome back to a fresh
episode of
sam's business growth show excited to be
joined by alex
goldfein today alex golfing gross
companies
he's the ceo revenue growth consultancy
and they basically work with
organizations
to implement systems remote and
proactive selling increasing sales
up to 10 to 20 in new business annually
um not only does he actually implement
the systems
his brand new book five minutes selling
for his clients
but he also applies the approaches to
his own firm one of the highest grossing
most successful
solo consulting practices of any kind in
america alex's brand new book five
minutes selling is out now
in the uk and the usa so today we're
going to be talking all about the book
actionable tips and sales and marketing
that you can apply
to your own business to your own selves
to make it happen from today
alex hello everyone welcome to the show
sir sam thank you for having me i
appreciate it i'm grateful thank you
no worries dude so looking forward to
our chat today and there's gonna be
plenty for
ourselves to go through and we'll have a
little q a at the end for everyone
tuning in to ask any questions to
yourself before we get to this
juicy info we'd love to know a bit of
background on yourself really alex so
good to know a bit more about you so
your background where you grew up
um perhaps some of the key places you
worked at up to starting your own
company
and any lessons you could share with us
in sales marketing or business in
general sir
uh sure so uh i've never had a job
uh so i've always been in business okay
i started my first company i think when
i was 20 years old
and and i've been in business ever since
i'm i'm i've been an entrepreneur
uh my whole career uh sometimes it would
be nice to get paid every two weeks sam
but like especially now during a
pandemic
uh but you know there's look
everything's a trade-off right so
there's lots of great things
about running your own consulting
practice which is what i do now
uh and so going all the way back
i don't know how far you want me to go
but i had a computer training
business when i was 20. i was in grad
school for clinical psychology and i had
a computer training company
okay grew uh up to about 12 people so i
ended up
about 24 years old 12
people and we were teaching the
customers
of of our clients right so they would
make a custom software
and we would learn it and we would
create material course material then
we'd go and teach it
and i had again i was 24 i had people
working for me who were
in their 50s you know 40s and they were
managing me
i wasn't managing them you know uh
big business big big business for a kid
uh
but but um you know i was the only
salesperson
and i remember we had we had we had a
headquarters in in one town here in
chicago is where i live
we had a training center in the loop
which is downtown chicago right off the
the main train station yeah and all the
staff
and all that office space i remember it
cost me something like eighty thousand
dollars a month just to open the doors
right that was that was the overhead
because it was nice space because it was
training center right so everybody was
coming to the space so it had to be nice
and it was so hard to keep it afloat and
when the internet bubble burst
it all it all sort of went away you know
and i was 24 years old and i remember
the week before our wedding
literally in the week before our wedding
my dad and i were moving out furniture
from this office and it was it was um
it was a gigantic failure really my
first proper major failure in life right
the first of many
um but everything before it sort of
worked right
i was going to say you must have learned
a lot though alex especially if you i
think you said he grew to 12 staff or so
and you're only 20 years old and you're
renting a place that it's 80 000
or so so you must be doing something
right well i i
i certainly learned a lot and
i remember promising myself back then
i'll never have staff a gun
that's what i said as a 24 year old just
so miserable man it's the week before
your wedding you know and you're moving
this
this furniture out with your dad on your
back loading up a freaking u-haul
you know um
and it's been it's been 20 years uh
tomorrow's my birthday
i'm going to be uh 44 years old so it's
been it's exactly 20 years
i have never had another full-time
employee since that time
right so i've been i've been in business
ever since uh i run a solo consulting
practice you know the last two years it
was a three million dollar business
actually bigger than those companies
with with the 12 13 people that were in
them
actually grossing more sales solo
i have a lot of people that i work with
i have a i have an executive admin who
works half time with me i have
lots of other people who help me uh but
i've been working from home ever since
it was
it was a lesson that was seared into me
and and and it still stays i don't know
if this is what you were looking for but
this is exactly what i'm after man i
like we like
myself in the audience like the raw
truth and um
i'm much the same as you i work at home
whilst we've got a small team
i i know the the issues that can arise
with managing a large team
and payroll and all these all these kind
of things that you forget about until
you start your own company
so it's interesting you should say that
so okay
so you did that for a while and then
you've had various in businesses in
between
kind of starting your your own business
now have you and it's daily business
rather it's
yeah the business i'm doing now is about
12 years old i've been doing this for
for you know most of those 20 years and
it's interesting we
in in chicago our baseball team is the
chicago cubs
and the chicago cubs have a president
who who runs baseball his name is theo
epstein
and i don't know if any of this makes
any sense to to to
to the british with us uh but
i think the quote will he says growth
isn't linear growth isn't linear you
know
and so and he's talking about baseball
players but you know development
doesn't go like this right and it's the
same in sales
and it's the same in in in you know um
business growth it kind of goes like
this
and you hope that it goes like this in
an upper trend
you know and i know that there's been um
multiple times in our lives my wife and
i
where uh we've been out of money now
luckily it's been a while
right it's been it's been many years but
we've had times when
when literally there was no money left
in the bank and if i didn't sell it
that week we wouldn't have been able to
pay the bills
so you know when i write about sales
growth
uh you know my my my last book here over
this show they're selling boldly
and then my current book five-minute
selling which we're going to talk about
today which is just today's the launch
day in the u.s for this
um i mean it's based on things that i do
and it's also based on things that all
of my clients do and as you said in the
beginning my clients average
10 to 20 percent new additional growth
directly from this work and we know
because we track it
we we we tie dollars to the actions they
take that are
in this book and so for everybody
listening
everything i do with my clients so i
work with teams i work with
organizations of sales
teams and you know a company hires me
and then if you're on the sales team we
get to work together but if you're not
we don't get to work together
this is a book that's for you the
individual
so i wrote this so you can do everything
my clients are doing if you want to
apply it to your work until you're
selling and grow like crazy
and so in five combined proactive
minutes a day
i've seen sales people double their
sales
sam i've seen them triple their sales in
five total minutes now i know it seems
crazy but look
in five minutes does it
it does indeed in five minutes
i can leave 10 voice messages for
example
right okay 30 seconds i have a script in
here there's a lot of scripts in here so
there's
there's what to say and if you leave 10
voicemails a day the way that i write it
up here to people that you know
so not cold calls but people who know
your name sam and who's
whose name you know uh i average one
half to
two-thirds call me back so that we have
a nice conversation together
so if you do 10 a day and you're five
minutes if that's what you choose to do
the book has 16 things like that that
you can do
go ahead and the idea is you want to mix
them up you don't want to do just one
thing you want to mix them up but just
for this example
10 calls a day let's say you get all
voicemails
that's 50 a week 200 a month
2400 a year
a half to two-thirds will call you back
let's just say i have let's say
a half of 2 400 1200 let's round down to
a thousand right 40
40 will call you back sam that's a
thousand conversations in a year
proactively and the key here is you make
the calls when nothing is wrong
customers only hear from us sales people
when something is wrong
i screwed it up i can't get it to you on
time
um uh the price is going up
right aren't you glad i called the price
is going up they only hear from us when
something is wrong
i'm saying call people that you know
customers and prospects when nothing is
wrong
and connect with them and tell them you
want to help them
and nobody will say to you no i'd rather
you not make my life easier today
everybody wants to be helped because we
don't have a lot of people like this in
our lives
got it so we're talking about being
proactive
a system of pro-activity being
systematically proactive
um the difference is what the math we
just went through
right the difference is thousands of
actions a year or
out of system we kind of make a call
when we think of it
you know when we happen to think of it
and so now you're in the single digit
calls a month right um
the key the system is the key
uh so a little bit
every day all the time that's the key
all the actions are simple all the
actions are fast and none of them cost
any money to do
but the key is a little bit every day
all the time awesome okay we're going to
jump into five minutes selling and we'll
we'll thrash out perhaps some actionable
tips some sneak previews
that everyone tuning in live or tuning
in on the podcast after can
can take away and can can put into
action um
well i'm quite interested to know before
we jump into this stuff
um alex is so you've built up your
business over the last 12 years or so
and you said you've built it into a
million millions or so of dollars
in terms of revenue which is awesome
especially if you're on a solo
consultancy so it'd be interesting to
know how how you've actually made that
happen
perhaps you could share with us some of
the strategies you've actually put into
play
it from a sales perspective be it from
offline marketing
or also digital marketing which we're
always interested to talk about on the
show
yeah great to learn so
mostly sam by speaking uh so for me
is my social media um i'm not terribly
good on
actual social media but uh you know last
year
i tend to do in normal times i tend to
do like 75
to 100 keynote speeches seminars
workshops
and in the audience sit in my prospects
and
um some of them become my clients and
really
that's been the key to my
business growth if i look at my calendar
and i see speeches
i know my business is growing you know
these days you look at your calendar and
you see interviews and podcasts and
webinars right
so sure um so
so that's you know kind of in a short
simple answer
speaking has has grown my business right
not emailing um
not social media speaking has
got it okay and is that something you've
actively sought out is that something
you knew there was going to be a good
strategy or is it something you've tried
several strategies
over the years and that's just just one
that's that's proven to to bring
bring leads and bring new clients your
way yeah i think all of that sam i think
um
i think it's it's worked well for me uh
from the beginning but i've i've kind of
streamlined and improved my
my process for it for for bringing
people from being in the audience to
to becoming a prospect and then a client
um i think that
um i and and it is intentional
so so i do things in my work
uh only that i like so i've i've created
my business around stuff i like to do
if i don't like to do it i'm really good
at avoiding it like if i have to do
something i don't like
i'm really really good at
procrastinating on that thing like crazy
right same thing so since we're in
business
we don't have to do the things we don't
like right so
either i find somebody who's good at
doing that thing and enjoys it
and they do it for me or
it turns out sometimes that the things
which we avoid
actually don't have to get done at all
like nothing terrible happens if you
just scratch it off the list
you know so either i don't do it or i
find somebody better to do it
one more point about this um have you
ever avoided something for like
months weeks months and it's been in
your head you know that you have to i
have to do this i have to do this i have
to do this and it's
literally been in your head for weeks or
months and then you finally get to doing
it you finally sit down to do it
okay i'm doing it and it takes like 10
minutes
to do you know and you're done
15 minutes it's over it's been in your
head for months
right so and i'm good at doing this
like i'm good at avoiding things like
that for that long so
don't let it live in your head right
either do it and get through it
scratch it off the list if it's been
there for months and it hasn't been done
and you're still alive right it probably
doesn't really have to get done
or find somebody good to do it and let
them handle it
true man did exactly the same with this
podcast like i was talking to you before
the show
i found that it was editing and
producing all the episodes after
chopping them all up making sure that
all the sound was was right doing the
subtitles doing the videos just took too
much of my time
and it was kind of breaking into my
selling time and business time so i just
got a friend that i knew was
enjoyed this kind of media work and just
pay him every month to do it
it means i've got more free time to
focus on kind of what i want to be doing
so yeah
that brings true and i'm sure it's
something that's going to resonate with
with everyone tuning in interesting dude
and i know um i'm going to talk about
digital i know you're pretty active on
linkedin i know you're putting out a lot
of video content there and on youtube
i've seen as well
so is that something that's that's
helped your growth that's helped your
own business
you know it's a place i think like with
the books
um it's a place to to connect with
people and
and just i'm just trying to help as many
people as i can
you know uh consulting projects are
great
if you happen to work at those companies
uh and
and and it's it's a place to to put out
as much value as we can to help as many
people
as we can and that's kind of how i think
about them i know there's probably a
better way to think about them you know
as a conversion tool and so forth but i
don't think a lot about conversion i
think about
um helping as many people as as as we
can reach
and it's one good way to reach people
right and
my normal way to reach people uh during
the pandemic has
has been you know not just diminished
but all but gone
uh so uh and i think these things will
continue even when we get back to normal
times
you know i think there's a lot of value
uh in
in putting out as much
helpful material as you can makes sense
makes sense man okay yeah like i like
that approach to helpful material
because there's a lot of nonsense
that goes out so making it actually
helpful for for people you want to
engage with is is a good way of putting
it
all right let's jump into the book alex
five minutes selling as you said
is out now in uk out now in the us um so
it'd be awesome if we could
go through because you said at the start
there's there's a whole bunch of
five-minute
daily tasks that we can put into play
um and yeah essentially improve
ourselves so perhaps we could talk
through
without giving giving away spoilers and
giving away too much of the book
perhaps we could chat us through um i
know just now we talked about some of
the systems but maybe some of the key
systems that
people tuning in could could implement
or some tasters
that we can take away from today yeah
sure so look
when you uh make a call when you think
about it
randomly and you just do it once in a
while
it's action it's an action and it's like
a snowflake that falls to the ground and
melts and it's gone
right but when you do it in system like
we talked about
five minutes 10 a day right 50 a week
250 to
200 a month 2400 a year you have a
blizzard you don't have snowflakes you
have a blizzard
of activity of phone calls of
of opening new business of progressing
business
of closing business if you connect with
a thousand people to have a conversation
with them this year
there is no possible way for you to not
sell more
you couldn't if you tried not to sell
more you couldn't do it if you're
talking to a thousand people
more this year than you did last year
right so
to that end the book sam is based
on two planners and two trackers
so and you can go to my website and
download these so i'm just gonna hold
one up here i know some of you are
listening on audio and some are looking
at the video but there's a
proactive call planner for example on
this side of the page
and then on this side of the page there
is a weekly follow-up planner
and the idea is at the beginning of the
week
sit down for five minutes and write down
who to call
this week i feel like most people don't
make
proactive phone calls when nothing is
wrong systematically
because we don't know who to call this
is how complicated my stuff is right
we don't make calls because we don't
think through who to call
and look we're surrounded by names and
numbers email has
is a list of names and numbers right
thousands of them text messages names
and numbers
uh crm system names and numbers but
unless you use that crm perfectly
and almost nobody does uh
we have nothing in our lives that gives
us a list
of who to call right so unless we
put five minutes into creating that list
five minutes not 50
not five hours five minutes and you can
in five minutes you could probably write
down 25 names
20 names because it's open book or this
is not a closed book test that you're
being graded on right
it's look at everything and write down
who you want to connect with
and so so we're talking about idle
prospects here
alex so we talk about existing clients
so uh yes
we're talking about i think mostly i
think the
the category that that brings everybody
into it
is we're talking about people whose
names you know okay and people who would
recognize your name
and we're not talking about cold calls
right that's the key
we're not talking about cold calls even
though today
i don't even think we have cold calls
anymore sam because we're all living
through the damn pandemic
you know we're all living through the
same thing so you and i
could spend a half an hour talking about
everything we have in common right
how's your family how are the kids what
happened in the summer for them did they
have activities
what about school are they going to
school are they remote are they virtual
right
what are you guys doing for your company
you already told me you're you work from
home but
are people going into the office or or
is everybody working from on you and i
could talk for half an hour about that
we don't know each other at all
right so there are no cold calls sure
back to back to who to call
call people you know uh so the call
planner
that you can download has um eight
different kinds of people you can write
down so for example
customers you haven't talked to for
three months or more
it's a great group of people to call
because they're not calling you
and you're not calling them either right
so right now try to think of five
customers you haven't talked to
in three months or more it's hard to do
you can't do it because they're not in
your head
another category is um
customers who used to buy but stopped
they went away again try thinking about
five people like that you can't do it
because you're not talking to them
for most sales people like 90 to 95
of us we work reactively reactively
which means the phone rings we pick it
up we take the order or we help
the customer with what they need we're
in the customer service business we have
to help the customer right there's no
choice
we can't say i'm sorry i'm doing my
proactive work right now i can't help
you
yeah let me jump in there alex before we
carry on so i i'm often guilty of this
being being reactive so i'll i often
wake up
and i'll have a page sometimes even two
full pages worth of emails
some of that might be new business
inquiries some of them might be leads
some of them might be my existing
clients some of them might be my own
team
so they're a whole bunch of kind of new
leads existing customers
own internal issues all this kind of
stuff so
how should we as sales professionals as
business owners or even marketers
prioritize this kind of stuff
or should we just go straight into our
five-minute list building for the day
or should we go into prospecting or
should we be how should we prioritize is
the question i guess
so look um you have to do that work
right we can't
not do that work unless we come back to
the earlier part of our conversation
which is you
find an admin to get through it for you
right
um and but but only some of us can do
that right you and i can do that
because because we run a business but a
lot of the sales people listening to us
they don't have that option
you know um so i think you have to do
that work and the beauty
of five-minute selling is i'm not
suggesting you tear down your current
system and rebuild
it i'm not saying you're doing it wrong
i think you're doing it quite right
you know if you've been in business if
you've been in sales for any amount of
time i think you're doing it plenty
right right i think we need to infuse
um superimpose five proactive minutes
on top of all that reactive work that
you're doing and
that will make you stand out sam from
the 90 to 95
of sales people who are purely reactive
i'm telling you those five minutes a day
will separate you from the competition
so if i called you
here's what you say sam it's alex
uh i was thinking about you man how's
your family because remember we know
each other
right you recognize me i know who you
are uh
how's your family how was the summer
right what are they doing
in the fall for school and listen i was
just wondering
what are you working on these days that
i can help you with
right that's the language and when you
call somebody like that
nobody's gonna say to you no i'd rather
you not
make my life easier today they're going
to say
oh my god this person wants to help me
right and they don't have anybody like
this see we think their phones are
ringing off the hook
they are not they are not ringing off
the hook
nobody's calling people if you talk to
your customers they will tell you
that the only calls they get is from
people who want something or need
something
but somebody who calls when nothing is
wrong that's the key when nothing is
wrong
to ask how you can help what are you
working on these days that i can help
with
what do you need quoted what's on your
wish list
what do you buy from others that i can
help you with because we're talking on
the phone now
we're together or not why should you
have to think about it again later in
the day let me help you with it you got
me now
let me help you i want to help you um
people are going to be like holy smokes
right
this this is special and i used to no
it's singular and they will literally
feel like they owe you business sam
they're gonna be racking their head
on on well what can i come up with to
give to sam
so that so that he can help me right
they'll be trying to find places for you
to help because you're there
and they'll say well what about this and
what about that and they're going to
come up with stuff you don't even know
to ask about
which is the beauty of this so so that's
how it works
yeah it sounds so simple as well so are
we talking usually doing this kind of
first thing in the morning or perhaps on
the weekend prepping it alex
in terms of getting this list of people
that you already know they might be
existing clients so there might be
people you're already
talking to and then yeah making the list
the names of the numbers
calling them obviously out of the blue
there's no issue there's there's nothing
that's wrong
it's more just uh you're getting in
touch with them you're asking them about
themselves what's going on with them and
then
if there's anything you can help with so
it's pretty simple um
is it just something you throw you you
recommend people thrash out at the start
of their day or
just make time for each and every day or
that kind of thing
so you you put your lists together at
the start of the week again five minutes
total
you can do it sunday night monday
morning however you like and then
uh if if the if proactive calls out
is what you're doing first thing in the
morning is best uh so mark twain said
that if you're gonna eat a frog you
might as well do it first thing in the
morning because it's not gonna taste any
better in the afternoon
right and we know and they said if you
got a two frogs eat the bigger one first
which i like right eat eat the hardest
uh most complicated thing get it out of
the way first
um so by two o'clock
it's over i mean we're we're in full
reactive mode right by 11 o'clock we're
in full reactive mode
it's like working out you know for me uh
if i don't do it very very first thing
in the morning it's just ain't gonna
happen
you know and i know that right and some
people have the evening so you know if
you miss it
at your window it'll never happen right
same thing
uh so first thing in the morning say
between 8 and 9
30 that's your window by 9 30 you know
the phone's going to be ringing
like crazy and you're going to be
reacting or perhaps your emails will be
coming in sam as you said
so that's when first thing and then
you've gotten it done and you're going
to feel good
you know you're going to be happy you're
going to be positive and
it's going to improve the rest of your
day
makes sense man so get out of the way
like you say i'm much the same as you so
i enjoyed that analogy if i don't
if i don't work out first thing in the
morning or sometimes it's got to be on
the in the evening depending on what's
going on with my kid
then uh it's just not going to happen
which is much the same as this it'll
just take over you the calls will start
coming the emails can't start coming in
and you'll just you'll just lose track
and it snowballs cool i'll tell you um
just a quick story uh you know we're
doing a lot of podcasts for the book
which is launching now and
we're just talking to to lots and lots
of people setting up these interviews
and only one guy called me and he called
me on the phone
and he said alex uh just got your
inquiry wanted to talk for a minute
and you know see if there's a fit and
he's the only one who called me
and when this is done and it's gonna be
a year from now
who am i going to remember right i'm
going to remember the guy who picked up
the phone now
i don't know you know he wasn't selling
me anything but um
the person who calls is memorable
because nobody does it
you know the phone now is more important
probably just as important as it was in
the 80s
when it was the only thing we had i
would suggest it's more important than
zoom
because everybody's zooming and still
nobody's calling
it's interesting i think it comes down
to the fact that the zoom calls are
scheduled almost always you have to
schedule the zoom call
yep but the proactive call because
you're probably you're gonna get a
voicemail
and we view voicemail as a rejection you
know i've been rejected
by the person because i got their
voicemail um
we it's a lot easier for salespeople to
go to zoom than to go to the phone
and still in a pandemic when nobody's
seeing anybody
when nobody's traveling when nobody's
running around saying we're all doing
the same thing you're sitting at your
desk
i'm sitting at mine we all have our damn
phones right next to us
and nobody's calling my phone it's
silent nobody's calling anybody's phone
on the phone topic alex i'm uh i'm
looking at the table of contents for
your new book five minute selling
and i'm saying yes you should leave a
voicemail
so this is a bit of a controversial
topic so why should we be leaving
voicemails
is it um
i think you leave a voicemail so they
hear your voice so that they know you
tried
so that they hear your name so that they
know that you care
uh and you know look let everybody else
hang up
you know uh and and for for us
you know who whose job it is to help
people
um we're going to leave a message
because i want you to know that i called
and i want you to know that i tried and
i want you to know that i cared
and when you don't leave a message you
don't communicate any of that not only
that i want you to hear my name
and hear my company name right and i
want you to know that i want to help you
and i'm going to say that in the voice
message
right i'm actually going to say that so
i think we absolutely should leave a
voice message right and as i said when
when you leave these messages the way
that it's written in the book it's
i get 50 to two-thirds calling me back
you know and then the other thing we do
is every day so i every day i i do five
calls
i'll just tell you what i do in my work
since the speaking went away right and
that was my business development
and so every day i do five calls okay
and then on top of that we send out
seven text messages uh where we have
them
or emails trying to schedule a call
also and about half of those turn into a
phone call because again i know these
people right we know each other
uh and when we don't have so here's the
the list is uh we text
if we don't have a text we send a
linkedin message if we don't have a
linkedin message
for some reason we email is always the
last damn thing on the list it's the
last option always
sending an email is almost the same
thing as doing nothing
that's how useless it is for b2b sales
almost the same thing is doing nothing
um so so seven
requests for a conversation five actual
calls that's 12 communications a day
right that's 60 in a week
um 300 in a month i mean how can my
business not do okay
if i'm doing that just small actions
each and every day it sounds like
the system man it's all about the system
it's all about doing things
in process and not doing it for a day or
two or stopping which is how most people
do things
got the tools and look if you want to
grow sales
here it all is on a silver platter right
i'm holding the book up the book is the
platter
and and just do these things but
this is i say to every audience you know
that i do these these
workshops and speeches and um everything
we've talked about here sam the people
watching us are listening to us they
probably already know
these things you know they probably
already know them
and so and i know that you know that the
phone call is better than the email i
mean who doesn't know that a phone call
is more effective than email right
everybody knows
but knowing doesn't make us any money
it's the doing that makes the money
and so it's not enough to buy the book
and read the book i want you to do the
damn book
right i've got chapter two it's called i
don't want you to read the book i want
you to do the book
you gotta do the work people say what's
what's the secret alex everybody grows
look i got a 300 million dollar
manufacturer client right now
and they're up 60 in california 70
in the northeast they're up 60 percent
in the south
they're and they're a 300 million dollar
business this is how much my clients
grow
and people are like what's the magic
bullet you know my answer is there is no
bullet
the magic the secret it's the work the
work is the secret the grind is the
secret
we've got to do the work you know what
to do
we've got to do it we've got to talk to
people look at the reason we don't do it
is fear we don't want to be rejected
and so the answer is the phone call one
call
one good conversation one positive
interaction
uh you're gonna feel good you're gonna
be enthusiastic you're going to connect
with people look the phone calls
everybody is having right now they're
longer they're deeper they're better
you connect more with people because
nobody's talking to anybody like that
one phone call will get you out of the
vicious circle of
avoiding conversations avoiding
proactive action
not doing it because of fear and it will
move you into the success circle
of having conversations um creating good
results
generating activity telling people you
want to help them
and them responding positively to that
one call is the answer
to get you from the vicious circle to
the success circle
is this not something you can do with a
linkedin message
uh maybe you're gonna take the bait
you're hoping right
i'm hoping you'll take the bait uh it's
a softball isn't it
uh do you all have softball in the uk is
that something you guys do
i think it's is it similar to baseball
yeah but with a big softball
ah okay i don't know if we do i'm not
sure we have that you don't have that
uh so i guess in soccer it would be a
free kick without a goalie right
uh so look
you can't do it with a linkedin message
because on a linkedin message
they can't hear your voice on a linkedin
message you can't ask questions and hear
answers on a linkedin message
um you know you can't put your feed up
on your desk
and and just relax into a conversation
you know
and ask about their kids and um and plus
look at your damn linkedin inbox you
know and look at all the crap the
automatic
junk in there is that where you want to
be right
is that what you want to be one of i
would like to be
the only person calling your phone as
opposed to one of a thousand people in
your linkedin inbox
so when you want to think about when you
think about sales girl think about
how do you stand out from the crowd
and i would suggest that it's really
easy and the answer is
proactively communicating to people that
you want to help them
and being present um look i'm not
suggesting anybody needs to care more i
think you all care more than enough we
all care a lot about our customers
a lot what i am suggesting is we need to
communicate that care a little bit more
communicate that care so tell people
that you care
because if you care in silence nobody
knows right
it's like a tree falling in the forest
who knows that you care nobody knows
not not telling anybody i'm not
president i'm not showing up i'm not
calling
nobody knows if you send a linkedin
message that's not care
right that's fearful timid
you know a careful
rejection avoidance that's what that is
so
got it and i love the point about
standing out from the crowd now
alex let's so there's 16 different
actions we've talked about some of them
without giving too much aware as i've
been saying is there perhaps one more
action that you could share with us
that the audience can can take away yeah
absolutely and i never worry about
oversharing i'm i'm oh i like your csk
through 16.
i'm happy to to give everything sure so
uh the quote follow-up or
the proposal follow-up you've sent your
quota a proposal
right and each of these things is a
chapter in the book right so all the
different proactive call actions we
talked about each of those is a chapter
the quote follow-up is a chapter
they don't need a chapter they need a
paragraph but i was writing a book and
they made me write chapters right
so because we know everybody knows how
to follow up on a quote but if you think
it through
you've sent the quota the proposal right
the customer asked you for it you've
done all the work you've done 99
of the work 99 um you've built the
relationship you know you've served the
customer they came to you for something
you stopped what you were doing you
wrote up your quote or your proposal
now they have it and they're being
silent right
and we don't want most salespeople just
with what we've talked about already
about fear of rejection most salespeople
don't follow up on that because
they don't want to hear a no we'd rather
not ask for the yes because we're afraid
of hearing a no
because if you reject me sam i'm going
to die
and when i die my family won't be able
to afford our house anymore
and then the kids won't be able to eat
right this is how big the fear is now we
don't think in those words right i
exaggerate
for effect but it's fast that the fear
is
is not even milliseconds it's
microseconds in our head it's automatic
it's automatic thinking it's in our
subconscious and it stops us
from doing the follow-up and asking for
the business
and so when you reach out to somebody
and say sam where are you at in that
quote i was thinking about you
right i'd love to help you with that
that three-second follow-up
uh we'll close 20 to 30 percent of
what's outstanding and we know this
statistically
um and it's the last one percent
you know you've done months of work this
is three seconds to get the business get
the business
that you deserve you know you deserve
that business and they deserve your help
it's quite proven to close business is
it alex
that what the the line that i said um
yeah that's
just just any any line
you know the language is less important
than than the
gesture of of of showing up and saying i
want to help you
now where are you at on that this is
important to me right it's important to
me to help you
um so that you know the the gesture is
critical and these things are proven you
know we know 20 to 30 percent of quotes
will close
we know that 20 of did you know
questions turn into business
did you know i can also help you with x
or y or z
another three second effort right so sam
asked me a did you know a question about
web
choice what can you do for me did you
know we did seo
no i didn't know ask me another one
what's another thing did you know we
build websites that convert
visitors into customers or new leads
beautiful now can you give me three more
can you give me three more different
things that you do sure did you know
that's did you know we did social media
did you know we can become your full
outsourced marketing agency
that's three that's great so that's five
things right now i'm assuming
the audience assuming we're talking in
an actual business conversation right
you asked me five did you knows
we know statistically that twenty
percent of them will close
twenty percent of digital's close so you
asked me five and i pushed you to five
so we can get one right one is twenty
percent
uh that's how long this
takes sam if you're listening to us if
you're watching us
that's how hard this is ask in
system there's a whole there's a whole
chapter on did you know questions too
that's you firing services at me
the uh another action is the reverse
did you know question which is you
asking me what i need
so i would say to you sam what other
online services for your website or for
your brand do you need
or have you been thinking about or might
you be looking for
and then i would shut up and i would let
you think about the answer and tell me
the answer
so the reverse digino question asks the
customer to name what they're looking
for to you
some of my clients say what else do you
need quoted some of my clients say what
other projects do you have coming up
one of my clients was telling a story in
a workshop he said uh what um
he said to his customer uh what's on
your wish list
the great line he said she started
naming things and he's like she was
saying so many things i couldn't write
him down
it was so fast and so he said she got to
like six or seven things and he goes to
her
uh can you just email me the full list
so that i can
see it all and she goes sure because
he's helping her right she's perceiving
it correctly he's helping her
so i said how many things did she email
you he goes in 15 minutes
she sent me twenty four things
twenty-fourth the classes
how many have you he's standing up
talking to all of his colleagues in the
workshop so that they're hearing it too
it's a big part of my process
we marinate people in success and uh
i said how many things have you sold he
says only 18.
only 18 of them i'm like dude you got
six more to go let's go get on it
but look each of those products if you
sell products each of those products is
a repeat
a repeating order right meaning they're
gonna
you've just sold the first one but then
they're gonna need it again
and again and again and what we're doing
is we're stacking
repeat orders on top of each other you
probably get paid monthly sale
right there's monthly uh payments in
your work as you do these services for
people
so you're stacking monthly payments on
top of each other you're not stacking a
one-month payment
or a one-off order you're stacking
repeat business
one on top of the other and that's how
my clients grow so much because we do
this in system
got it and on that note is
is there a certain time period alex that
we should be
doing this to our contacts to our
existing clients in terms of reaching
out so it should be doing
every x amount of months or every month
continuously
or do it one month and leave them for
another quarter or that kind of thing is
there a system in terms of time
that we should actually put into it and
how often we should communicate with our
clients or our prospects
yeah like how much time to to let pass
in between communications is that what
you're asking
exactly yeah um you know i think the
answer to that
depends on the business that you're in
and also further will depend on your
customer
you know so you might have
you know really good customers who
require communication every day
depending on what you do
you might have other customers who who
are medium let's say you have
one of the things we do is we split up
the biggest customers the mid-size
customers and then the smallest guys
and we look at who can grow who can
graduate to the next group right
um so i would say different people have
different
rates or spacing of communication
but i would also say sam don't think
about it too much
just help people like it's some so not
like
actually it's impossible to over
communicate with somebody
if it's helpful i'm trying to help you
you know i've had i've had over 10 000
sales people go through my projects and
over the years and i
i mean maybe i can count on one hand
how many of their customers said to them
stop trying to help me so much
and and that even then it was like a
like a joke it's a half joke
you know nobody will get mad at you if
you're trying to
honestly help them and that's the key so
you have to be comfortable
folks with the fact that you're offering
these people incredible value because
you are
right and i believe that and sam
believes that and your customers believe
that and now you have to believe it
so if you're uncomfortable with it
you'll just avoid doing it and the
customer is going to feel
your discomfort too but if you're
comfortable with it
and the customer says well gee stop
trying to help me
remember 10 000 sales people doing this
over over 12 years
which is millions of actions millions of
documented actions
unless than you know less than five
people have said get out of here right
stop trying to help me
and and i would suggest for those people
that's their problem that's not the
sales person's problem
that's their problem agreed agreed i
love that quote it's impossible to over
communicate with people
um when you're being helpful yes that's
brilliant really well without worrying
about it
awesome man so um alex we've covered
some great ground
and before we tell everyone how they can
get their hands on the brand new copy of
five minutes selling
and we do like to ask if there's one
thing that
businesses can be doing with digital
marketing that's going to help them from
today
what would you say it was
ask me again while i think about it if
there's one thing businesses can do what
if there's one thing that businesses
could be doing with digital marketing
that's going to help them from today
what do you say it was
got it um i think
if you're b2b i really think the best
place for us to be is linkedin
and i think i think our customers are
there that's why it's the best place we
want to go to where the customers are
so i would i would intentionally look at
your linkedin system
again system i'm all about systems um
and and make sure you're actively
demonstrating what you can do for people
on linkedin who can buy from you i think
that's your key
as as there's less and less
opportunities
to connect with people face to face we
have to look for other ways
to connect with them right i think your
phone is your number one
uh and then digital marketing wise
i think look at linkedin not
spamming people's inboxes but as a tool
to demonstrate your great value
to them that's why when we talked about
linkedin at the early part of our
conversation sam i said to you
i'm just trying to put as much value as
i can out there i'm just trying to
to teach people exactly what they can do
to grow their sales
and so i think that's the thing i don't
know if it's the right answer but i
think that's the thing
sure and just to dive a bit deeper on
that are you using things that have kind
of worked in your own experience
so things that have worked for your own
business and then as you for as an
example i'd actually put out quite a lot
of videos i see from your page
is that just a case of sharing tips of
work to grow your consultancy over the
years then you're sharing with your
audience or is it something a little
different
you know i i think videos and and sort
of
communicating again value communicating
help which is how i think of them i
think they're helpful in
in several ways first and books are the
same way you know
they're helpful in the moment that
people are watching them they're helping
when you put them out you get some
awareness
because you you probably put a link to
it or promote it somewhere
and then they they stay around forever
right so if somebody's researching me if
somebody's thinking about working with
me
and i do big projects with clients the
last six months or 12 months you know so
a lot of this stuff
is is is you know making sure
that i have um lots of helpful stuff out
there when somebody's
making a decision and what i'll do is
i'll again i try to make it active not
passive
i'll um send links to things
to prospects when when we're talking
about a specific project so i'll go find
things
that apply to them and i'll send links
you know just like when my book was was
in the airports where everybody's
traveling right it's not there anymore
because
you know nobody's traveling but um i
can't tell you how many clients and
prospects take a picture of that book
and send it to me and people almost feel
like
people feel almost like like proud of
the fact
that their consultant or their advisor
is out there like this
and so it's only helpful and plus you're
helping people and that's cool
love it man love that point that you
made about the video in terms of it's
something that's always there so
if someone does a search when you let in
the date you can they might find you
or also what i've found with some of the
video content that i've put out be it
podcasts or via other other video pieces
when i'm talking to people about
certain new digital marketing projects
for example i've probably got a video on
it from somewhere so i can just shoot a
little link in the email i can say look
i did something about this the other day
rather than read a lengthy email just
look at this bit man
whoever it is just a nice way the key
is to get active about it as opposed to
passive
you know passive marketing
rarely generates business now
but active communications generates
business now
and so that's what to do now do both no
not to the exclusion of passive do
you we want both we want to stack both
on top of each other but
um active communication leads to quick
wins
passive communication on its own
probably won't lead to many wins at all
activity is king everyone you've been
tuning into southwest business first
year
we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story
how digital has helped along the way and
their exclusive tips and insights to
help you score up at your business and
skyrocket your sales
alex we'd like to ask everyone that
comes on if you could thank just one
person
either dead or alive having a positive
influence on yourself and your career
who would that be
and why that's a good question uh
my dad uh alive 68 years old
i think i got that right um lives 20
minutes from me
with my mom but the reason i say him is
uh when i was two years old in 1978 they
we lived in the soviet union i was born
there and
um and they dragged
our butts out of there and my dad
dragged us out
to america to the enemy uh we came here
with 20
that's it that's all we had we had 20
bucks u.s
no language didn't know anyone uh
traded his engineering job in in russia
for
um you know washing dishes and
delivering pizzas
uh and we came with 20 bucks a couple
years ago he retired as the head of
engineering for baxter pharmaceutical
uh in their iv lab and i get to run a
three million dollar consulting practice
so my dad is who i think for all that
great stuff man great story alex
tell us a bit more about how people can
grab their self a copy of five minutes
selling
and the best way people can learn from
you and connect yeah
so five minutes selling is on amazon uh
launched today in the us
today as we shoot this on tuesday the
25th
um launched simultaneously
rarely in the uk and europe so they did
a
a a dual print run in the uk and in the
us
most business books are only launched in
the us by wiley
uh and then they put them on a boat for
four to six weeks and they could come to
you guys
and then you get them a month and a half
later well five minutes selling
is available now you can buy it now and
get in a day or two however long it
takes amazon to deliver where you are
so go to amazon and you could buy five
minutes selling there if you want those
planners and trackers go to my website
goldfein.com my last name goldfein.com
we'll have a link somewhere right sam
sure thing that'll be in the description
and and you can get your free download
there you can even get it before you get
the book
so everything's there awesome man
and you're on linkedin as well so if
anyone wants to follow you make sure you
you
follow alex goldfein on linkedin he's
putting out tons of great content
in terms of sales and in terms of
marketing um
but otherwise thank you so much alex
really appreciate you coming on the show
thank you so much are you tired of
constantly hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because your
website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach that
brings idle clients
straight to you connect with sam dunning
on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts